#summary This Wiki contains a How-To guide
#labels Featured

= Tutorial to install community rom =

== Requirements: ==

<wiki:comment>
LCR 1.4 was *only* for Acer_LiquidE_0.010.00_EMEA_GEN1 bin file

LCR 1.3 was *only* for Acer_LiquidE_0.008.06_EMEA_GEN1 bin file

LCR 1.5 was *only* for Acer_LiquidE_0.014f.01_EMEA_GEN1 bin file. 

</wiki:comment>

*LCR 1.7 is based on Acer_LiquidE_1.100.39_EMEA_GEN1 bin file. We strongly advice you to update using the more recent official acer update to eclair (1.100.39). It will work on 1.100.05 bin too.

=== If you own a liquidE or already updated your liquid s100 with acer official Eclair update, you don't have to install another bin file ===

=== bin file ===

Now available on acer support page.
http://support.acer.com/drivers_download.aspx

Links to oldest bin are provided for information only or in case you can't find the bin on acer page

Acer_LiquidE_1.100.05_EMEA_GEN1 http://www.megaupload.com/?d=MM62W37I

Acer_LiquidE_1.100.05_EMEA_GEN1 http://rapidshare.com/files/386463804/Acer_LiquidE_1.100.05_EMEA_GEN1_2fe3feb1f695fe0b8e22c09ae14544fd.bin.zip

Acer_LiquidE_1.100.05_EMEA_GEN1 http://www.4shared.com/file/fJ2Qn_iV/Acer_LiquidE_110005_EMEA_GEN1_.html

Acer_LiquidE_1.100.05_EMEA_GEN1 http://www.multiupload.com/6EY2O1VMZL

<wiki:comment>

Acer_LiquidE_0.014f.01_EMEA_GEN1 http://www.megaupload.com/?d=VYJWX4UT

Acer_LiquidE_0.014f.01_EMEA_GEN1 http://www.speedyshare.com/files/22311663/...1_EMEA_GEN1.zip 



*Since LCR 1.4 you need to use the 0.010 bin file. If you are using the old one (Baseband A1-03.05.02 or A1-03.10.03), you have to reflash the new bin first (Baseband A1-03.12.01)* To know what baseband your are currently using ggo in Settings/About phone/Baseband.

http://www.megaupload.com/?d=FIKQQVSU Acer_LiquidE_0.010.00_EMEA_GEN1

http://www.4shared.com/file/0pt2IgPK/Acer_LiquidE_001000_EMEA_GEN1_.html Acer_LiquidE_0.010.00_EMEA_GEN1 (mirror)

*Since LCR 1.3 you need to use the new bin file. If you are using the old one (Baseband A1-03.05.02), you have to reflash the new bin first (Baseband A1-03.10.03)* To know what baseband your are currently using ggo in Settings/About phone/Baseband.

</wiki:comment>


<wiki:comment>
http://www.mediafire.com/?eityv5dynnn Acer_LiquidE_0.008.06_EMEA_GEN1
</wiki:comment>

=== Drivers ===

Will be installed by acer update tool

Links provided for information only

http://www.megaupload.com/?d=E5PTHL3O Acer Liquid drivers for Windows 

http://www.4shared.com/file/pkdJ9oQQ/AcerLiquidDrivers.html Acer Liquid drivers for Windows 

No more needed
http://www.megaupload.com/?d=EF2QNANO Acer A1 Download Tool

<wiki:comment>
http://rapidshare.com/files/362960867/Superboot.zip Superboot
</wiki:comment>

=== Superboot (don't flash the boot.img / don't run install-superboot-windows.bat
) ===

http://acer-liquid-community-rom-bugtracker.googlecode.com/files/Superboot.zip Superboot.zip


Our latest ROM, look for it here: 
http://code.google.com/p/acer-liquid-community-rom-bugtracker/downloads/list

== How to install ==

= Important : If you have used apps2sd before installing, always do a WIPE SD in the sdcard menu of the recovery before flashing LCR =

* Note that if you use the superboot.zip, it will install an old version of malez recovery image that may not work with your bin file. Check here http://code.google.com/p/acer-liquid-malez-recovery/ to benefit of latest enhancements *
===

=== Your current liquid android version is 1.6 (not 2.1) ===

**If you own a liquid E or a liquid s100 with the official update to Eclair from acer, you don't need to do this. You can also update using official update to Eclair (see acer support site) instead of following this step. It will be easier for you**

*1)*
Unpack the drivers.

If you have a 32-Bit version of Windows, go to the folder x86, if you have a 64-Bit version, go to the x64 folder.

Then run the setup.exe and follow the instructions.

*2)*
Unpack the Acer A1 Tool.

*important : * under windows Vista / 7 : choose Windows XP compatibility mode and "run as administrator"

Run the ACER Download Tool. Click "Browse" and select the downloaded ACER_LiquidE...bin.
Attach your Acer Liquid and press Start. It should start flashing the stock Éclair image.

Don't interrupt this process!! In case of communication error during flash process. You can unplug and replug usb, don't power off the phone.


=== You already have latest bin file for android 2.1 installed (if unsure follow first step) or you have just followed the previous chapter ===

{{{
You already have installed the liquid e bin file or installed official acer 2.1 update 
If that's not the case, follow first step
}}}


*1)*
Unpack the Superboot.zip.

*2)* Check here http://code.google.com/p/acer-liquid-malez-recovery/ if a new revovery version is available. Put the new recovery in the unpacked directory and rename it recovery.img

*3)* 
Boot your phone in normal mode and check that usb debugging is enabled in settings/Apps/Developpement

*4)* Put our latest ROM .zip into the root of the SDCard. You will find our latest rom in the [http://code.google.com/p/acer-liquid-community-rom-bugtracker/downloads/list download section] of this site and is about 80 Mo.
Rom files are named LCR_XXX-signed.zip where XXX is the version number (ie 1.6 or 1.7)

To access you sd card from your computer, slide down the notification bar and choose the appropriate item.(It must be something like "Connected to an usb cable, activate to copy file")

*5)* Reboot you phone is bootloader mode using reboot-bootloader-windows.bat" (windows) or launch "sh reboot-bootloader-linux.sh, or adb reboot bootloader

*6)* Run the "install-recovery-windows.bat" (windows) or "sh install-recovery-linux.sh" (linux)

This will install a custom recovery and reboot your device.

*7)* Reboot in recovery mode.
Double-Click the file "reboot-recovery-windows.bat" (windows) or launch "sh reboot-recovery-linux.sh, or use "adb reboot recovery" (both)

Then wait until the device is rebooted into recovery.

*8)* Choose "wipe" / "wipe data/factory reset" with menu button and apply with home button. Go back to main menu with < button.

*9)* Navigate to "flash/test menu" / "apply any .zip from SD" and push the menu key, and then choose the ROM and press menu again. Press home to start flashing

Wait for the installation to finish.

Reboot.

Congrats, you're done!

== Factory reset / Data wipe ==

In case of crash while accessing sychronization settings, you need to do a Factory reset.

In case you wipe your data partition (factory reset) and your LCR version os prior to 1.2.3, you need to reinstall the rom update.zip file. Just apply the zip file in recovery mode.

== Bootloader mode ==

If one of the script just keep blocked on 'waiting for device' and you phone is connected, just control that it is booted in bootloder mode.
It a black scrren with a white moving-line on top.

Here is the button conbination to force the boot in fastboot mode.

 # Unplug the phone from usb
 # Press Volume Up + Camera button + Power button
 # The phone will vibrate twice but stay turned off
 # Take the battery out, and plug the phone into the computer again using the usb cable.
 # Phone will boot in bootloader mode

If you don't see this and the phone turns back on as normal, try it again.

 # replace the battery.